#Character 
A man, who created a [[Vibrations|Vibrational]] generator using a [[Nuclear]] engine in his backyard, in such a tone, that his body would get rapidly healed from any and all ailments in a radius around his house. This was thanks to the [[Dr Emoto's Water Experiments]], that he could achieve this. He was encountered by members of [[The Government]] of [[China]] after reports of [[Earthquake]]s reached them. They couldn't apprehend him, as at the time he had perfected his system to work with minimal vibrations. Any shot fired at him would regrow his body after a second, and even prolonged fire didn't seem to matter. Sadly, the continuous pain, and the ample adrenaline in his veins, as well as his madness, inherited from his achievement, caused him to beat 13 members of the [[The MSS]] in hand to hand combat with his fists, before they were forced to retreat from the location. 

Approximately 2 days after the retreat, and evacuation of the nearby city, [[The MSS]] dropped an anti tank shell on the nuclear engine in the backyard, causing it to detonate, and release radiation, as well as raw bits of Uranium in the area, causing the nearby city to be subjected to a massive localized earthquake, that ranked a 8.6 on the Richter Scale. 

Esero Khuga was caught in the reactor meltdown, causing his skin, bones, and other muscles to melt down, while rapidly healing, causing him to undergo extreme [[Mutation]]s, and absorbing the biomass in the area around his house. By the end of the earthquake, a whole city block, and then some was covered in a mass of flesh that was once the [[Body]] of [[Esero Khuga]]. Cancerous tumors, extra sets of eyes and teeth, bones where bones shouldn't be, extremities as high as buildings, as buildings themselves got converted into a part of Esero's new body. 

Esero is now known as [[RAB-Khuga]], a [[Cryptid]] and the only remaining inhabitant of the chinese village. 