[[7|Previous]] [[9|Next]]

Things progressed rather quickly after the end of the orientation. In fact, a lot of things seemed to have been expedited for the sake of getting us out of the dining hall and into our dorms as quickly as possible; all without actually _saying_ it of course. The lights around us slowly dimmed after the first few courses of food were served, and as the desserts finally came through, so too did these individualized letters arrive on similarly posh silver platters. Each letter was sealed in an envelope that was custom made for each of us, with different colors, designs, and even a custom wax seal that I’d only seen on period-dramas and movies. My letter however was particularly bland, a starch-white paper that was devoid of any detailing or embellishments, save for my name written on it in stunning cursive and capped off with a plain, unmarked wax seal.

Thacea seemed to have taken notice of my hesitation with the letter, as everyone else had already started unsealing them and reading the contents within. “Do not think much of the lack of sigils and regalia, Emma. You’re a newrealmer, so a lack of any identifying markings is to be expected. With time, as the Academy learns more about you, your customs, your people, and your house, I’m more than certain that you will find such official correspondences to be tailored to fit your personal honor.” The avian attempted to reassure me, completely missing the point, but much to her credit reinforcing my assumptions of the Academy.

This place wanted to extract as much intel out of me as I was planning to do from _it_. Things were bound to evolve into an interesting game of cat and mouse, but first, I wanted to see what awaited me inside of this mystery envelope.

After unsealing the wax, I was met with a high quality parchment with what I assumed was the Academy’s insignia at its header: two keys crossed diagonally with a wand and book superimposed in the middle, mimicking the titular medieval heraldry of a sword and shield. Within the letter were the contents of the entire orientation summed up in a mini-syllabus, which puzzled me as there didn’t seem to be any new information within the lone piece of A4 parchment. That was, until my finger had traced down to the bottom of the letter, at which point the meticulously crafted calligraphy of the page suddenly _melted_.

**LOCALIZED SOURCE OF MANA-RADIATION DETECTED, 200% ABOVE BACKGROUND RADIATION LEVELS**

The text that had been written in what I assumed was ink simply dematerialized, _then melted_, before reforming into new letters and words like an unnecessarily complicated slide transition on a PowerPoint presentation. Eventually forming an entirely new page of information.

“Heh, surprised Earthrealmer?” Ilunor suddenly piped up after noticing my extended staring. I didn’t know how else he would’ve gauged my reaction given the helmet, so this was more than likely just a provocation made out of spite or some underlying prejudice. I half expected this though given his _attitude_ from before.

“What about?” I snapped back, too tired to argue, but also too annoyed to really let that comment slide.

“You know, I understand the desire to save face. I really do. But you don’t really need to do so in front of us. We’re your _peer group_ after all, and it’s important for us to know what you have and what you lack in your realm. Newrealmers are generally more… _**primitive**_ in their predispositions. Seeing text _move_ across parchment must be new to you… indeed, seeing the written word at all must be an entirely new concept for most of your kind for sure.” The diminutive lizard spoke with that same inflated sense of self worth and ego. One that I couldn’t help but to narrow my eyes at despite knowing it wouldn’t be picked up by anyone around me, let alone the lizard.

It was at this point that I had a choice to make.

I either ignored the discount kobold and continued on reading. Or, I smacked him upside the head with my data-tab just to show him just what _moving text_ actually looked like. The latter would’ve been quite effective too, given the fact that I was assigned a milspec data-tab. So unlike most tablets in the commercial market that prioritized sleekness, thinness, and style all the while sacrificing resilience, milspec tablets still very much resembled the bulky electronic hardware of the 28th, 25th, 23rd, heck, even the early 21st century. It was designed with ruggedness and survivability in mind, so I knew that smacking the lizard upside the head with it would certainly do more damage to _him_ than the tablet itself.

I decided on a compromise however, as I wordlessly grabbed my tablet from my belt, turned it towards the lizard, and began scrolling through some of the open tabs I had. Making sure the screen was set to maximum brightness on light mode, and to scroll as fast as possible as tens of pages flew by with each flick of my finger.

I only did this for a short moments to prove my point of course, but the reaction I garnered from Ilunor was nothing short of worth it.

His mouth hung agape, his pupils constricted from the blinding light, as his whole body seemed to tense as he tried to speak but found himself unable to do so. Stuttered words emerged from his gaping maw, but all of them were quickly shushed by the likes of Thalmin who seemed more annoyed by the lizard’s antics than anything.

“B-but the Earthrealmer, they, that… what… what was… that’s not… they’re not supposed to have-”

“What? Just spit it out or I’ll bite you.” Thalmin growled, as he and Thacea seemed to be too preoccupied with the contents of their own letters to have paid my little interaction with Ilunor any mind.

After recovering from that brief exchange with a triumphant chuckle underneath my helmet, I began combing through the letter for all of the unspoken announcements alluded to during the orientation. What was highlighted above all else however were three, quite understandably, important topics.

**Dormitory Assignment: Dragon’s Heart Tower, Level 23, Residence 30.**

**Weapons Inspection: Conducted by School Blacksmith and Armorer Professor Rowan Heart, at the North Field Proving Grounds, by the stroke of Midnight tomorrow.**

**House Assignments: Conducted by Professor Altalan Rur Astur, Professor Vanavan, and Professor Mal’Tory, location to be determined. No preparations required. Details will be posted to your dorms on the 4th day of the Grace Period.**

Both the Weapons Inspection and House Assignments worried me greatly.

The former was tricky, as on one hand it could be a solid show of force for humanity, which seemed to be sorely needed in an Academy clearly designed to force the upper echelons of the other realms to bend the knee. However on the other hand it could lead to unforeseen consequences, most concerning of which was losing the element of surprise in the case I needed to use it, or worse yet, outright technological theft. I’d have to sleep on it… but suffice it to say, even though my pistol was relatively obsolete by modern standards, it was still leagues beyond whatever this place had.

The latter announcement on House Assignments however was a complete mystery, and whilst it gave me bad vibes, I knew I’d have to rely on the likes of Thacea and Thalmin to fill me in on what to expect. It was clear they had prior knowledge of Academy life, so they’d be a vital resource to rely on. I’d worry about that later.

The other details listed in the letter were rather mundane, and relatively benign: school supply procurements, uniform tailoring, as well as other assorted details including the schedule for the first semester and the names and offices of all professors assigned to Year 1 students.

To be honest I was getting tired by this point as the only thing keeping me up was the latent effects of adrenaline coursing through my veins.

It was clear everyone else at the table shared a similar sentiment as yawns and half-lidded eyes abounded all around me. This prompted someone to finally mention the possibility of retiring for the night.

“Well if there isn’t anything else we have to do, let’s get moving. We have a new home to look forward to, and we still have to decide on sleeping arrangements.” Thalmin spoke, taking charge as he stood up.

Ilunor followed suit, as he glanced towards Thacea. “Let’s just hope our dorm is one of the three-bedroom variety, and not two, because I’d hate to force anyone here to room with our _tainted_ Princess.” He spoke, in a surprisingly calm manner which really clued me in as to how he perceived Thacea. If he could discriminate this passively, then the whole taint discrimination must really run _deep_. “Even you, Earthrealmer.” He turned towards me. “As much as I find your presence aggravating, I’d rather a quick and proper death than one by inadvertent and unexpected taint consumption.”

I ignored the discount kobold once again as all four of us finally made our way out of the Grand Hall and out into the castle proper.

=====

**En Route to the Dorms**

The journey up and towards the dorms was one that I’d _definitely_ need the suit’s footage for a deeper analysis later on. There was no way I could remember every twist and turn, every hallway and corridor, every stairway and stairwell, every side passage and connecting room that led us to where we found ourselves now. Indeed, I wasn’t surprised that Ilunor had practically _begged_ me to carry him the rest of the way, as his little lizard legs were clearly not built for scaling the lengths and heights of this verifiable castle of a school.

I refused to oblige of course.

Until, suddenly, the comparatively small thing all but gave up on walking. Which forced me to bridal carry him the rest of the way towards the dorms.

Instead of being happy with the service I’d freely offered him however, he started to wheeze and whine with even _more_, stirring up my already frayed nerves like a child poking at a big cat enclosure at a zoo. He wasn’t satisfied with the way I was carrying him, for in his own words, being carried like a sack of potatoes _‘wasn’t “becoming” of a noble and being of his standing’_. I told him I couldn’t give less of a crap about his _standing_, and that his little legs barely gave him anything to stand on. The lizard however refused to listen, and instead took it upon himself to rectify this injustice without a chance for me to argue.

He scurried up and around my arms, scaling me like some sort of an unruly house cat, before finding himself perched up on my shoulders. However, instead of draping himself across them like a scarf the way my cat usually did, he instead decided to ride me like some glorified jockey, with his legs dangling from my shoulders and his arms firmly cinched up against the chin of my helmet.

I would’ve been worried about the helmet slipping off if it wasn’t for the 3 layered hermetic seal and maglocks which kept it tightly affixed to the rest of my armor.

The whole affair was somewhat demeaning, and kind of humiliating when you looked at it from an outsider’s perspective, but I really couldn’t care less at that point. I was tired, and at least _this_ kept the lizard’s mouth shut as we made our final approach towards our dorm.

Even Thacea and Thalmin refused to comment. Either out of pity for the lizard or out of respect for me having to deal with him.

=====

**Dragon’s Heart Tower, Level 23, Residence 30.**

I didn’t know what I was expecting with the accommodations. To be honest, that was the last thing on my mind given the non stop barrage of stressful circumstances that had come to dominate the majority of my evening.

A part of me was excited for it though. It was the same intrusive part of my mind that still wanted to see this place for what it clearly wasn’t: a fantasy. Images conjured up from years of hyperfixations on novels detailing the fantastical accommodations in magically inclined schools certainly didn’t help matters.

As a former college student I didn’t have high hopes for ‘dorm life’. As an _academy_ student however, the possibilities were endless.

Any and all expectations were thrown completely out of the window as the double doors opened, revealing a room that immediately struck me as a design pulled straight out of a 5 star suite in some heritage building dating back to pre-20th century vintage.

The double doors gave way to a small hallway which opened up to a living room four, maybe even five times the size of my aunt’s New York City apartment in the heart of the Acela Corridor. Windows that looked more at home in a cathedral dominated the majority of the living space, which was otherwise centered around a fireplace that roared to life as soon as the doors behind us closed shut. A series of sofas, lounge chairs, bookcases, and coffee tables adorned the oak, timber, and granite tiled floors. This complemented what I could only describe as a mix of wood framed wall panels with white accents that felt somewhat precarious when considering that the fireplace ever so often emitted embers that floated high up to the roof.

That was another thing I needed to mention right off the bat…

The fucking ceilings.

Most apartments in the Acela Corridor, the combined megacity that was New York, New Jersey, Boston, Washington DC and Baltimore, had a maximum ceiling height of about 9 feet. You’d be lucky to find a place with ceilings that high in fact, but my Aunt was lucky enough to have inherited a legacy apartment dating back to the late 21st century.

The ceiling in this “dormitory”? It went up a good 14, maybe even _20_ feet. It actually sort of angled inwards towards a rectangular point, which was more than likely the underside of a roof, meaning we were at the very top floor of one of the castle’s towers.

The ceiling tapered up towards these open wood-frame support beams and struts that back on Earth could’ve housed an entire colony of pigeons. Indeed, my overactive imagination conjured up thoughts of Thacea perching upon it given her avian form, a thought which would’ve made me chuckle wildly if not for how awestruck I was from the grandeur of this place.

Yet as stunned and in awe as I was, the rest of my peers seemed to walk right through the space without paying much mind, as if it was just another room to them.

“What a dump…” Ilunor muttered under his breath, scampering off of my shoulders and back onto his feet. Which surprised me not because he’d consider this place anything but utterly mindblowing, but because he still found it in him to fucking complain even after everything we’ve been through.

“Furnishings and quarters more fit for a minor lord or a knight. Say, this would more than likely be what you’re used to, right, Emma of Earthrealm?” Thalmin spoke with that same, gruff tone of voice. It was clear however he was still _attempting_ to play nice, so I responded with the only thing my awestruck self could do at that point.

I shrugged.

“How’re you finding the quarters, Princess? Are they to your liking?” Thalmin quickly turned to face Thacea, who seemed to be analyzing the place with those piercing eyes of hers. Her hand ran across some of the furnishings as she pinched her fingers together at the slightest bit of dust.

“I am partial towards anything the Academy wishes to provide us.” The avian answered diplomatically.

“Oh come on, answer _truthfully_, Princess.” The Lupinor egged her on for a less guarded response.

“If I am to be… blunt about it, this place is sorely lacking in amenities as it is in size and design. A hallway leading into a rectangular living quarters, with only two bedrooms flanking the hallway near the entrance? You’re right in your presumptions, Prince Thalmin. These quarters seem to be quite suited for an individual of knightly status or perhaps even a minor lordship.” Thacea responded with sincerity, though remaining tactful in her tone and delivery.

“No dining room.” Ilunor mumbled out as he splayed across one of the couches. Again, reminding me of a spoiled feline.

“My points exactly.” Thacea responded, while I stared at all of them with an unbreaking expression of utter disbelief.

“Alright, enough room talk I think there’s something that I need cleared up.” I interjected, finally breaking through my awestruck gawking with a renewed sense of direction.

“Yes, Emma?” Thacea replied promptly.

“You said we’d talk about this when we got somewhere less public, so spill it. I want to know what was up with the academic rites thing. I want to know why today’s ceremony was such a big shock to you all. I want to know what the hell is up with _everything_.” I laid out all my questions, to which Thacea and Thalmin promptly nodded in response.

“I appreciate your patience in maintaining discretion for so long, Emma. An answer is the least we can do to reciprocate your tactfulness in handling what must be a very confusing set of circumstances.” Thacea began.

“I’ll explain it simply, Earthrealmeer.” Thalmin interjected, as if to take the burden of explanation off of Thacea as it was clear her response was going to be long winded. “What usually happens on the night of arrival is an orientation, _not_ the academic rites ceremony. That’s why everyone was so surprised, that’s why everyone was caught off guard. We had no time to prepare for it, but there _were_ rumors that this year would’ve been exceptional, so, some of us _were_ prepared.” The Lupinor lifted up his ceremonial dagger, pointing at the gem which encrusted the hilt of the blade. Thacea did the same, revealing her necklace and amulet, whilst Ilunor lazily raised his stubby little arm, and pointed at his bracelet.

Thacea took over from Thalmin after that. “You see, the relationship between the Academy and us students has always been indicative of the relationship between the Nexus and the Adjacent Realms. The entire school was constructed as a _bridge_ between the realms after all, and after the great war between the Nexus and the Adjacent Realms, there was a level of… animosity and distrust that drove the Nexus to implement radical changes at what was supposed to be neutral ground: the Academy. For you see, the Academy had long since been a center of learning for the most magically gifted of the Adjacent Realms, and those usually consisted of the royalty and nobility, as it was magic that granted the first of the noble houses power to rule over the masses. So with a great concentration of the young, fledgling members of the Adjacent Realm’s elite present at the Academy, the Nexus decided to implement the Academic Rites as a way of directly controlling a significant portion of the upper echelons of the Adjacent Realms.”

“Wait, I don’t get it. How is today’s ceremony not supposed to be the way it usually goes? Why do they tolerate the whole amulets or whatever that you have on?” I asked in a rapid fire pace, which prompted Thalmin to respond.

“Well, that _was_ how it _used_ to go, Earthrealmer, but things changed. The gist of it is this: relations improved. After we became more accepting of the Nexus’ influence following the war, they became less strict about directly controlling our ruling castes. The ceremony remained as an afterthought, no longer meant to bind us, but instead kept as just tradition. Honestly, they would’ve just removed the rites entirely, but they kept it because they wanted to save face. They didn’t want to seem weak, because if they remove it, well, it’s going to look like they acquiesced to us Adjacent Realmers. So the rites remained, but more like a ceremony than a real rite. That’s why it’s normally _always_ scheduled _after_ orientation and arrival. It gives time for students to prepare, share amulets, and make new ones; so when the time came for the ceremony everyone would resist it by default. It was just for show, literally just a tradition.” Thalmin replied succinctly.

“So _that’s_ what was different about today… they literally surprised all of you by bringing back an old policy you expected to have been dead or at least nerfed for ages now.” I surmised, which prompted nods of tentative affirmation from both Thalmin and Thacea.

I barely had enough time to process everything before a sharp creaking noise pierced the air just after our discussion had ended. A small door that blended in seamlessly with the rest of the wood paneling of the living room suddenly opened up, revealing faint candlelight emanating from within.

Emerging from it was a member of the same diminutive elven race that had read out my name upon entry to the grand hall. This one however seemed much more shabbily dressed, adorned in rags if they could even be called that. They seemed to be dragging out oversized suitcases and luggage, which I immediately assumed belonged to my peers. An assumption that was promptly proven right as Ilunor sighed loudly upon seeing it.

“Just place it wherever, aura-less, and leave us alone when you’re done.” Ilunor spoke dismissively.

The being bowed deeply in response, as it seemed to be quick in grabbing more luggage and suitcases, which at this point was quickly taken by both Thalmin and Thacea, who gingerly removed them from the elf’s hands as they both spoke at the same time.

“That won’t be necessary.” They spoke with sympathy and pity in their voices, Ilunor however instead glared at the whole exchange with an annoyed expression.

“The elf is here to serve. _Let it serve_.” He proclaimed as he snapped his fingers twice. “Where are your manners aura-less. Introduce yourself to your betters.”

“A-apologies master. I… I- I am Aurin. I have been assigned as your dormitory’s resident porter. If there is anything I can do, anything at all, I will be at your command throughout the day and night.” The elf spoke, before bowing deeply toward each and every one of us.

Thacea and Thalmin’s reactions were easy enough to read. The Princess was wary to show any emotion, but it was clear through those very expressive eyes that a great remorse was welling up within her. Thalmin’s reactions however were far more confusing, as it was clear there was some level of personal shame there, as if he had something to say but couldn’t.

“Go back to your hole, we were discussing something important.” Ilunor finally waved the poor thing off, as I was once again stuck there utterly thrown off by _everything_.

As soon as the elf was out of the room however, I felt as if I needed to say something about that whole exchange. I simply couldn’t stand by and watch anymore.

This was the last straw.